Add Solarkraft blogpost #1 (#7)
konnov/protocols-made-fun: _posts/2024-06-14-solarkraft-part1.md

---
layout: post
title: "A New Hope – Why Smart Contract Bugs Matter and How Runtime Monitoring Saves the Day (Solarkraft #1)"
date: 2024-06-14
categories: 
  - "solarkraft"
tags: 
  - "apalache"
  - "formal-methods"
  - "runtime-monitor"
  - "smart-contracts"
  - "solarkraft"
  - "soroban"
  - "specification"
  - "stellar"
  - "tla"

>   - "tlaplus"

Author: Please check these

Reviewer: Looks good!

- **Continuous Monitoring:** Unlike testing and audits, which occur at a specific point in time against a fixed commit, runtime verification provides ongoing security throughout the contract's lifecycle.

- **Early Detection:** Runtime monitoring can identify potential issues early in the execution process, allowing for quicker mitigation and reducing the attack window for malicious actors.

In the following posts of this series, we'll delve deeper into the world of runtime monitoring in Solarkraft with TLA+. We'll explore how to specify contract behavior using this language, dive into Solarkraft's unique specification and monitoring strategies, and see how runtime verification can be seamlessly integrated into the development workflow to build more secure and reliable smart contracts.

_Development of Solarkraft was supported by the [Stellar Development Foundation][] with a generous Activation Award from the [Stellar Community Fund][] of 50,000 USD in XLM._

[Apalache]: https://konnov.phd/portfolio/apalache/
[Solarkraft]: https://thpani.net/solarkraft/
[Audits]: https://thpani.net/audits/

> [Contact]: https://thpani.net/#contact

Author: idk if you want these to link to your site or mine. feel free to change :)

Reviewer: I think it's fine, if the inbounds go to you this time :)

---
layout: post
title: "A New Hope – Why Smart Contract Bugs Matter and How Runtime Monitoring Saves the Day (Solarkraft #1)"
date: 2024-06-14
categories: 
  - "solarkraft"
tags: 
  - "apalache"
  - "formal-methods"
  - "runtime-monitor"
  - "smart-contracts"
  - "solarkraft"
  - "soroban"
  - "specification"
  - "stellar"
  - "tla"
  - "tlaplus"
---

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/solarkraft.png)

» **This guest post by [Thomas Pani][] first appeared [on his blog][part1].**

> _In this series of blog posts, I'm introducing [Solarkraft][], a TLA+-based runtime monitoring solution for [Soroban smart contracts][Soroban]. We will start easy, with an overview of smart contracts, their principal vulnerabilities, and the traditional model of securing smart contracts, and an overview of how Solarkraft proposes a new solution._  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_In this series of blog posts, we introduce [Solarkraft][], a TLA+-based runtime monitoring solution for [Soroban smart contracts][Soroban]. We will start easy, with an overview of smart contracts, their principal vulnerabilities, and the traditional model of securing smart contracts, and an overview of how Solarkraft proposes a new solution._  
```
